Docker: 
Generally when we want to deploy software, we have 2 types of architectures. 
1) monolithic : We have N number of services in an application, we run every service on a single server
2) micro-service: If there are N number of services and we have independent server for each service

Microservices is best as we can just turn down the service which is not working properly. 
But the expense to maintain each server is more. 

So the concept of virtual machine arises: 
First we need to know about virtual machine: 
A system which is installed inside our physical system to operate with a seperate Operating System. 
But this has some disadvantages as the consumption resources of virtual machine will decrease the performance of the main system. 

To rectify this, we will use docker:
We create containers in docker, containers also work as virtual machine which doesn't have any operating system. 
We will run applications in Docker with the help of IMAGES.

Containarization:
When a developer writes a code, we will convert the code into a WAR file which contains the code for the application. 
So we will pack the WAR file(application) and add all its dependencies to create an IMAGE. This process of packing is called containarization. 
Here as we pack all dependencies, we need not to install the dependencies individually again. 

ABOUT DOCKER: 
Docker is an open source platform. 
It is used to create, deploy and run applications. 
Docker is written in GO language. 
Docker uses containers on host operating system to run operations. 
We can install Docker on any operating system, but docker engine runs on linux commands. 
Before many users face problems of the code running in developer system and not on the user system. 
Docker rectifies this issue as it will also package the dependencies along with the application so the user will need not to install the dependencies again. 
Docker was released on March 2013 and developed by Solomon Hykes and Sebastian Pahl. 
The size of the files will reduce once we send the file into the container (It will not delete any data but compress it)


Docker has 4 parts: 
Docker client: It is the place where we will perform the commands. 
Docker Host: The system where you install the docker. 
Docker Deamon: It has 4 components: 1) Containers 2) Images 3) Volumes 4)Networks
Docker Registry: As we know docker is used to create images and dockerHUB/Registry is used to store the images. 
